Filed under:Plus lots of smart home experiments This spring, developers will break ground on Peña Station Next, a futuristic neighborhood built from scratch “midway between Tokyo and Frankfurt”—a.k.a. on the outskirts of Denver, Colorado. The site was chosen by Japanese technology behemoth Panasonic, the city’s partner in the project, as a testbed for self-driving vehicles, solar power, and smart home technologies. Already, the site is outfitted with 53 intelligent LED streetlights and a parking lot covered with solar panels. An EZ10 autonomous shuttle is slated to arrive later this month—the same self-driving buses that hit Helsinki streets in August.It's a glass cabinet! It's a screen! People are loving this concept from @panasonic #CES2017 pic.twitter.com/hR0Uz7OqSYAt this year’s CES, Panasonic showed off some of the other technology that’ll be tested at Peña Station, including transparent glass panels that double as display screens, induction stoves concealed within stone countertops, and connected bus stops displaying the locations and arrival times of nearby buses. The neighborhood will also be monitored by a sensor system tracking air pollution, cloud cover, humidity, noise, and temperature.Construction of the development’s residential buildings is scheduled to begin in March. Once completed, the 400-acre site will be a mixed-use neighborhood with an anticipated economic impact of $82 billion a year. Check out the full story here. Via: Denver PostA daily dose of design and real estate news, intel, and eye candyCOVID-19 has caused volatility in seemingly everything but housing.Designed by California architect Mickey Muennig, the home features a jaw-dropping bridge with panoramic ocean views.Embarking on a home renovation project is no easy feat, but there is probably a stellar app out there to assist with every part of the process.The Kennedy family used to summer at Wildmoor, a shingled East Hamptons house a few blocks from the ocean.This Guy Peterson-designed house in Florida blends polished concrete with wood accents.No matter the size of your outdoor space, a great patio chair can transform any yard, balcony, or terrace.