Filed under:The concept cuts some traffic lanes while doubling the transportation capacity of the streetRide-hailing service Lyft is making moves in urban planning. Working with architecture firm Perkins + Will and the transportation consultants Nelson\Nygaard, the startup recently developed a street redesign for the era of autonomous cars. The proposed concept reimagines LA’s Wilshire Boulevard, transforming it from 10 lanes of vexing car traffic into a multi-transit space with wider sidewalks, benches, planters, bike lanes, dedicated bus lanes, and lanes for shared self-driving cars.The proposal seems to follow many of the popular street design solutions du jour, including a future-forward optimism. The Lyft team claims that Wilshire Boulevard’s current car-centric design can only serve about 29,600 people, but that the reimagined version—with its bikes and busses and financially incentivized car-sharing—could serve up to 77,000.Welcome to Curbed’s first-ever Transportation Week! It's time for a weeklong romp through all things related to transportation in the U.S. We'll be focusing on the topics most pressing to cities: everything from ways to improve public transportation in cities to ranking the best neighborhoods across the country for living a car-free life, plus a friendly competition between NYC, San Francisco, and Los Angeles to determine which city has the best public transit in the U.S. All aboard! The team is likely aware of the optimistic tenor to their design. But the alternative—letting the advent of autonomous vehicles “organically” shape our streets—is a missed opportunity with potentially dangerous implications.“AVs have tremendous opportunities for recreating the public realm, but if we don’t grasp those opportunities, it could go sideways,” said Gerry Tierney, an associate principal at Perkins + Will and director of the firm’s mobility research lab. “We’ve been though this before. At the start of the 20th century, people had no idea that cars were going to run over their cities. They can plead ignorance. We have an opportunity to right the wrongs. We know what a dystopia looks like.”Do check out Co.Design for the full story. Via: Co.Design, CNNA daily dose of design and real estate news, intel, and eye candyCOVID-19 has caused volatility in seemingly everything but housing.Designed by California architect Mickey Muennig, the home features a jaw-dropping bridge with panoramic ocean views.Embarking on a home renovation project is no easy feat, but there is probably a stellar app out there to assist with every part of the process.The Kennedy family used to summer at Wildmoor, a shingled East Hamptons house a few blocks from the ocean.This Guy Peterson-designed house in Florida blends polished concrete with wood accents.No matter the size of your outdoor space, a great patio chair can transform any yard, balcony, or terrace.