It is widely acknowledged that fully autonomous vehicles (AVs), or cars and trucks that can drive themselves without a human at the controls, are coming soon. In fact, Levels 1 and 2 AVs are already on our roads. Many companies are currently testing AVs, and AV programs have been launched across the country by various companies in the technology and transportation industries.
AVs have the potential for tremendous safety benefits, but it will be decades until all vehicles on the road will be autonomous, and perhaps they never will. Until then, autonomous vehicles will need to share the road safely with human drivers.
GHSA Policy
Click here to view GHSA's Policy and Priorities on Autonomous Vehicles.
Further, the public remains skeptical about the safety of autonomous vehicles. Surveys have shown that fewer than 30% of people report that they would feel comfortable riding in a highly automated vehicle, and fewer than a quarter would buy one as soon as it became available.
This presents a challenge to states, which are responsible for public education, driver licensing, and establishing and enforcing traffic laws. GHSA believes that states should play a prominent role in dealing with the issues that will come from a mix of autonomous and human-driven vehicles on the roads.
Automated Vehicle Safety Expert Panel: Engaging Drivers and Law Enforcement
On May 8, 2019, GHSA and State Farm® hosted an expert panel meeting in Washington, D.C., to discuss traffic safety education and law enforcement amid the advent of automated vehicle technology. This white paper summarizes the outcomes of that meeting and provides a number of recommendations for State Highway Safety Offices and the broader safety community. Former senior NHTSA official Dr. Jim Hedlund authored the paper.
The white paper is available here.
Autonomous Vehicle Policy
As both state and federal governments consider autonomous vehicle policy, GHSA is committed to ensuring that safety remains a priority and that states are given a voice in these discussions. Seventeen states and the District of Columbia have already enacted laws regarding AVs, and another six have executive orders addressing the technology.
In July 2017, GHSA along with the National Governors Association (NGA), the National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL), the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) and the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA) sent a letter to members of the U.S. House of Representatives, urging the federal government to work with states to craft AV policy.
View the Letter
News tagged with Autonomous Vehicles
Related News
New Report: Expert Panel Agrees There is Much to Be Done to Keep Drivers Safe in the Automated Vehicle AgeAugust 1, 2019
GHSA Joins PAVE Coalition to Increase Driver Knowledge about Automated Vehicle SafetyJuly 9, 2019
Traffic Safety Recommendations for Automated Vehicles Being DevelopedApril 29, 2019
Featured Initiative
Currently, there is no featured initiative on this issue.All State Highway Safety Showcases can be viewed here.
Publications
Highlights of Association Activity, FY 2019
Automated Vehicle Safety Expert Panel: Engaging Drivers and Law Enforcement
Highlights of Association Activity, FY 2018
View All Publications
Laws
There are currently 37 states along with the District of Columbia that have enacted legislation or issues executive orders regarding Autonomous Vehicles (AVs).
See All Related